>> Richard Feldman: So
to wrap up, summary part four,
we started off talking about unifying
operators and just like the very basic.
We should get two type mismatches if we
call the multiplication like the time
sign and the two things on both
sides of it are definitely strings.
We talked about type mismatches and
how the only way you can
get type mismatches so
far that we've seen is through unifying,
vacation and that's also gonna persist.
If we're just doing like, you one constant
side to another, there's no real way to
get a type mismatch no matter how
many of them you chain together.
But as soon as you start getting
multiple constraints into play,
that's where type mismatches come up.
In other words, like you're calling unify
on the same number more than once, or
the same type ID more than once.
That's where the first time it
can set it to one concrete Or
something that becomes a concrete type.
And then later on,
you attempt to unify it with something
else that's a different concrete type and
that's when the trouble starts and
that's when the type mismatch happens.
And then finally, we went and looked at
the code of the unify function itself to
just really see like, conceptually, yeah,
it's kind of like the types are identical
but really, it's own thing.
It's like those specific branches that do
these specific things under these specific
circumstances that's really unfortunately.
The best way to understand unify is
just to kinda look at that code and
just remember or
even step through in your in your mind.
What branches are happening when
>> Speaker 2: in unify with the case where
we have both a and b as null.
Richard said that it's not important
that we simulate a to b or b to a,
Can you speak a little
bit more about that?
>> Richard Feldman: Sure, so
this was like right here,
away that you can tell this that
this is true, so the question was,
at this point,
we are sym linking a to b, right?
If a was null, then we're Okay, cool set
A, to be a symlink, A is symlinked to B.
If you get down into this branch,
if B happened to be a was not null and
B was null, we unify it and
come back here.
So a way that you can think about this is,
let's just like walk back through this
scenario right here so everything's null.
And right here, we're like, okay,
I similarly this is the sibling a to
be right like we unify these two and
we said that I D, 0 is now selling to one.
What if we instead had like
done the reverse and said,
like I wanna symlink 12 so
let's pretend that this is still null
I'm not gonna like change the slide in
real time, but pretend this is null.
And then The next thing we
do is we unify this one and
we say that's a string well,
when we're going through and
unifying this two string, we still do
have the information in the database.
That prior to doing that, this thing
was sim linked to this other type And
when we're going through and resolving
what we would be unifying that string
against is like we would
have already traverse that.
What we'd end up with is we're now in the
branch of unify where we are attempting
to go through and unify this with string,
so that's like one of the two type IDs.
And the other type ID is gonna have gone
through the resolve and compress thing,
which is gonna end us up back At zero.
So after you follow that symlink,
like, again,
pretending that symlink is down here and
this one is null.
We're basically saying okay,
unify whatever this thing
resolves to with string, and
what that thing resolves to is a symlink
to zero in this hypothetical scenario.
So what you end up with is basically like,
you're still unifying string with zero,
and you're Basically gonna
still end up with one of
these things that's saying like,
I am the same as the other one.
And the other one is a string
either way you come at it.
>> Speaker 2: Another question is
how would unify function work for
a node that cannot create a mismatch like
assignment are such nodes skipped from
unification step or
is there some implicit?
>> Richard Feldman: How would it work for
nodes that so
I think it's important to
note that at this point,
Unify only knows about types,
so Unify actually doesn't like.
What we give it are these two IDs so we
give it the purple numbers it actually has
no idea what node that came from
it could have been an assignment.
It could have been a number could have
been a string, could have been a function,
really, it has no idea other than that.
Like, it knows what this type ID is,
and it can access the database so
it can go ask what that type is.
But basically because we have this
separate phase, like, before then,
where we're going through and saying,
like, actually even further back.
Where we're basically saying, kay, this
is the phase where we know which things
are assignments,
which things are constants.
And then, as we go through and
assign these numbers and put them in
the database, and then start connecting
them up and running unify on them.
Like right at this point, unify is like,
okay, yes, we still have these over here,
but unify never sees these unify
only sees the numbers and.
The relationships between the numbers
that are represented in the database so
the sum total of what unify is able to
access is right over here it has no idea
about any of this stuff.
So I guess the short answer is basically
that that can't possibly affect Unify
because it just doesn't even
have access to that information.
Now, we can go from node to type ID
because we write down the type ID in
the node but
the reverse is not true we don't
connect the type IDs back to the nodes.
If all you have is a type ID [LAUGH],
you're stuck in types land,
you can't get back to two nodes if that's
all you have, alright, with that in mind,
let's hop over and do some exercises.
>> Richard Feldman: So we're off to part
four now once again, you know, parts four,
five, and six are all just going
to be doing type check.js so
let me cd into that and run our tests.
As usual, we have test failure and
let's go take a look at how we might
fix that got a lotta other type checking
stuff here, two right here we are, okay.
So this one is just all about
the actual multiplication operator,
so this is gonna be a relatively quick
one, just a five minute exercise.
Basically, we're just gonna do
exactly what we did in the slides in
the multiplication case.
We have discovered that we
have two operands, as I know,
like the two things on the ones on
the left, ones on the right, and
we've already said, Okay,
I'm gonna make this concrete number type.
I mentioned like,
two sections ago that although for
our purposes, for like,
teaching in Slides,
it's pretty convenient to just say you
can just put a number directly in there.
This is one of those scenarios
where it's okay ,well, actually,
what I want is that type ID and so
rather than make a bunch of edge cases,
we're just gonna go ahead and
create our own number type.
And if you look at the implementation
of this thing, it's basically like,
just give me a new type ID, and I'm just
going to put concrete right in there, and
now I have a type ID for
that concrete thing.
You never do this in
a production compiler,
because this is totally wasteful.
We're just, like, adding database rows
just to write down string, over and
over, and they're all getting different
IDs instead of hard coding one.
But again, this is not a production
compiler, so that's the most convenient
way to get ourselves a type ID that
guarantees points in number without having
to pre-populate the database of
constants and stuff like that.
Okay, so that's our number type ID and
then basically
the conditional that we wanna
do here is take a look at the left operand
of the node and also the right one.
And if either of those,
sorry if they are both concrete,
they know if either of them is concrete,
it must be a number,
because those are the rules
of the asterisk operator.
So separately, a thing that we would do
is we would say those two things need
to be equal to each other.
That distinction can matter if you have
a polymorphic type which we don't for
our operator we're saying this
is hard coded concrete number.
So really all we need to say is left needs
to be number and right needs to be number.
Otherwise, if they're not concrete,
then that's fine,
we can just unify the non-concrete
type with number and
basically say you're null or you're
a sibling or something like that, or
I guess at this point it
wouldn't be a sibling anymore.
So you are null, that's fine, but now you
were before and now you were a number.
And that's not type mismatch because
there wasn't any constraint there.
And then the final scenario being,
you're already concrete, but
the concrete type that you are is number.
So no harm no foul we will
just leave you alone okay,
let's take five minutes and
work through that.
>> Richard Feldman: Okay, so we have our
solutions over here for this one very
simple thing where we're just checking
to see if we have an operator of star.
Then we need to basically just
make a concrete type of number,
using our little hack here
to get a type ID out.
And then basically we just
have these two scenarios.
So left concrete is something that is
defined a little bit higher up here, so
back up in the top here, before we're
looking at what type operator we have,
we have this convenient thing.
We're like, okay, well, let's go use
this get concrete type name thing,
which if you go and take a look at this,
is basically like, okay,
go do the resolve siblings and
compress things.
So now we have back either null or
we have a concrete type Sorry,
an ID that refers to one of those.
And then basically you say, okay,
is entry.concrete not equal to undefined,
meaning that like it does
have an actual concrete type.
Then we can return that otherwise,
we return null.
So putting that together,
what we end up with here is either null or
else the actual concrete type
itself that's inside there.
So not like the object with
the concrete field in it,
but the actual contents of that concrete
field, which means that we actually have
a string that we can compare with
triple equals and In JavaScript.
So using that we can basically say
okay left concrete double ampersand is
basically saying like okay, it's not null
because one of the two possibilities
was that we could have
gotten it back as null.
And if it's not null and
it's not equal to number,
that's a problem because when
we are doing this unification,
we expect this thing to be a number and
so, it was concrete.
But it wasn't a number that's going to be
a type mismatch and basically it's just
exactly the same thing, but
with right concrete if you want.
Of course, combine these two code paths
and do a little like for loop over over,
a two element array of like left and
right.
That would work too but this, I guess,
does give you a little bit more specific
type mismatch error message up with this,
moving on, okay.
So then the other way that we can
do this is we can say, okay, and
this was a scenario where we
knew that it was concrete.
This is a scenario where we know that it
is not concrete, so this is basically,
yeah, this thing is definitely null.
You could also have, instead of that,
you could have equals equals null, or
triple equals or triple equals null, or
hey, man, my JavaScript's a little rusty.
I don't remember there's some other fancy
way to do this, to check if it's null,
besides like bang and
double equals and triple equals.
I think there might have even been a gotta
around triple equals I think double equals
also checks for undefined.
At any rate, point being,
this is the scenario where
left is not concrete is null.
At that point, we're just saying, cool,
just go ahead and unify that with number,
and we know that that's gonna work out,
because it's null.
Anytime you unify null with anything else,
it's just gonna either sim link it, or
in this case, since we know
we're giving a concrete type.
We know that thing is just gonna end
up being number, which is what we want.
Then same thing for
the right version of that,
and then we are good so
let's try grabbing that
real quick, that's not where I wanna be.
There we go, Okay, and bam, all good, you.